.\" Copyright (c) 2016 Ruslan Bukin <br@bsdpad.com>
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This software was developed by SRI International and the University of
.\" Cambridge Computer Laboratory under DARPA/AFRL contract FA8750-10-C-0237
.\" ("CTSRD"), as part of the DARPA CRASH research programme.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\" $FreeBSD$
.\"
.Dd December 12, 2016
.Dt XDMA 4
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm xdma
.Nd DMA framework
.Sh SYNOPSIS
To compile xDMA device support into the kernel, place the following lines
in your kernel configuration file:
.Bd -ragged -offset indent
.Cd "device xdma"
.Ed
.Pp
Alternatively, to load xDMA support as modules at boot time, place the
following lines in
.Xr loader.conf 5 :
.Bd -literal -offset indent
xdma_load="YES"
.Ed
.Sh DESCRIPTION
xDMA is a DMA framework designed to abstract the interaction between device
drivers and DMA engines providing single standard interface for that.
.Pp
VirtIO defines an interface for efficient I/O between the hypervisor and VM.
The
.Nm
module provides a shared memory transport called a virtqueue.
The
.Xr virtio_pci
device driver represents an emulated PCI device that the hypervisor makes
available to the VM.
This device provides the probing, configuration, and
interrupt notifications needed to interact with the hypervisor.
.Fx
supports the following VirtIO devices:
.Bl -hang -offset indent -width xxxxxxxx
.It Nm Cyclic
An emulated Ethernet device is provided by the
.Xr vtnet 4
device driver.
.It Nm Memcpy
An emulated disk controller is provided by the
.Xr virtio_blk 4
device driver.
.It Nm SG
An emulated SCSI HBA is provided by the
.Xr virtio_scsi 4
device driver.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr virtio_balloon 4 ,
.Xr virtio_blk 4 ,
.Xr virtio_console 4 ,
.Xr virtio_scsi 4 ,
.Xr vtnet 4
.Sh HISTORY
Support for xDMA first appeared in
.Fx 12.0 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.Fx
xDMA framework was first added by
.An Ruslan Bukin Aq Mt br@FreeBSD.org .
